Story Recapped here.
Today, I’m going to explain a comedy, drama,
and fantasy film called “About Time.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
The Lake family resides in harmony at their
house by the sea.
There's the ever-busy mother, Mary; the always
active father, James; the charming yet absent-minded
uncle, Desmond; the awkward son, Tim, and;
the free-spirited daughter, Katherine or "Kit-Kat."
Every year, they host a New Year's Eve party
with family and friends.
At this year's party, Tim navigates through
the crowd feeling awkward and dragged around
by his friend, Jay.
During the countdown to the new year, a girl
he's been dancing with, Polly, leans for a
kiss, but he shakes her hand instead, leaving
her disappointed.
The following day, Tim wakes up, overwhelmed
with embarrassment and a terrible hangover.
He's called into his father's study.
James, his father, then tells Tim that he's
about to share with him a secret that he's
never told anyone before.
According to James, the men born into their
family, including Tim, can travel back in
time, but it's limited to their own lifetime.
They cannot go to a past they didn't experience
or a place they've never been to.
To do this, they must go to a dark place like
a large cupboard and think of the place and
time where they want to be, and they'll find
themselves there.
Unsurprisingly, Tim thinks this is a joke.
He shakes his head at his father, thinking
that he's pulling his leg.
To prove that it isn't true, Tim goes inside
the closet and thinks of the New Year's Eve
party last night.
After a few seconds, he comes out of the closet
and is surprised to see himself dressed in
his clothes from yesterday.
Music and conversations echo from downstairs.
He heads down and is immediately pulled by
Jay, evading a table that he previously knocked
over.
At the countdown, he kisses Polly, who reacts
giddily.
Afterward, Tim goes back into the closet and
travels to the present.
Realizing that the time travel is real, he
listens to his father's experience about the
ability, discovering that it's how James seemingly
had a lot of time for them.
James advises Tim not to use the ability for
money or power, so Tim decides that he'll
use it to find love.
That summer, Kit-Kat invites her boyfriend's
cousin, Charlotte, to stay at the beach house
for two months.
As the family sunbathes with their guest one
afternoon, Tim hopes to get on Charlotte's
good side.
Seeing an opportunity, Tim agrees to put sunscreen
on Charlotte's back but ends up spilling the
bottle on her.
Feeling humiliated, he travels back in time
and acts more casually and carefully about
it.
Throughout the summer, Tim attempts to impress
Charlotte but fails each time until it is
too late.
And then finally, it's Charlotte's last day
in the house.
On the evening before she leaves, Tim hopes
to confess his feelings for her but is instantly
shot down before he could, discovering that
Kit-Kat already warned Charlotte that he might
do this.
Charlotte wonders if things would have turned
out differently if he'd talked to her before
her last night at their home.
The thought gives him an idea.
Tim travels back in time to confess to Charlotte
in the middle of summer.
But this time, Charlotte tells him to ask
her again on her last night at their home.
This confirms that he never had a chance with
Charlotte, no matter what.
Tim finally gives up on pursuing her.
The day after Charlotte left, Tim leaves their
home and moves to London, where he stays with
James' friend, Harry.
Tim is excited for the new chapter of his
life ahead but is disappointed to learn that
Harry is a short-fused playwright.
In the first six months, Tim hasn't had any
luck in romance, finding that his career as
a lawyer acquaints him mostly with other men.
His luck turns when one night, Jay takes him
to Dans le Noir, the restaurant where the
guests dine in total darkness.
Here, they are seated next to a woman named
Mary and her friend, Joanna.
In the darkness, Tim and Mary get to know
each other and have a great time.
After dinner, Tim and Jay finally meet the
girls face-to-face.
Tim is stunned upon seeing Mary, and it's
pretty evident that sparks have flown as the
couple lay eyes on each other.
She gives him her phone number before parting
ways.
Tim walks back home with a skip in his step,
only to be welcomed by Harry's angered growl.
The opening of his play was ruined by the
lead actor forgetting his lines.
Wanting to make things better, Tim goes back
in time and joins Harry in the theater just
before opening night.
He approaches the lead actor, Tom, and convinces
him to practice his lines.
This works, but then another actor forgets
his lines instead.
Tim goes back in time again and helps him
out.
The play turns out to be a success.
However, when Tim checks his phone, he realizes
that Mary's number is no longer there.
His travels in time had erased his lovely
evening with Mary.
Feeling distraught, Tim joins an ecstatic
Harry for breakfast the next day.
Harry shares the newspaper where Tim finds
an ad for a Kate Moss exhibition in the city.
Remembering that Mary is a fan of Kate Moss,
he spends the week at the exhibit, hoping
to run into her.
After a whole week, Mary finally walks in,
and Tim nervously approaches her.
However, their interaction doesn't go smoothly,
and he learns that Mary now has a boyfriend
named Rupert.
Tim learns that Mary met Rupert at Joanna's
party.
He learns the details of the party and goes
back in time to stop it from happening.
Tim arrives at Joanna's apartment and convinces
Mary to leave the party with him before Rupert
arrives.
Mary is a little hesitant, but she feels a
magnetic force pulling her towards him.
As they leave, they brush past Rupert, who
unknowingly walked past his supposed future
girlfriend.
Meanwhile, the two have a lovely dinner where
they get to know each other even more.
Tim ends up walking Mary home, and she invites
him up to her apartment.
The atmosphere turns hot, and they take the
date to the bedroom.
But after awkwardly tripping over Mary's shoes
and having difficulty unclipping her bra,
Tim experiences an awkward first sexual encounter
with Mary.
He decides to go back in time, and this time,
he skips over Mary's shoes and quickly undresses
her.
This time everything goes well, but Tim knows
he can do better.
After Tim's multiple attempts, the couple
spends the perfect first night of passion.
Over the following months, their relationship
continues to bloom, and the couple eventually
moves in together.
While at the theater with a coworker named
Rory, Tim encounters Charlotte, but the conversation
quickly turns awkward.
He tries a second time, but it doesn't go
well again.
For the third attempt, he decides not to approach
her, and instead, Charlotte spots him and
initiates the conversation.
Charlotte invites him to dinner, where she
mentions her regrets about turning him down
in the past.
Charlotte asks him to walk her to her apartment
and tempts him to go inside with her, but
Tim refuses.
Being able to turn down his first love helps
Tim realize how deeply he loved Mary.
He runs back home and wakes her up to propose
to her.
It ends up not as romantic as he expected,
so he does it again.
The second time, she says yes.
That summer, Tim takes Mary home to meet his
parents.
Mary and her mother get along, and Tim spends
quality time with his father.
To his surprise, Kit-Kat is also home after
having a horrible time in London.
The Lake family bursts in joy upon the announcement
of Tim and Mary's wedding and Mary's pregnancy.
Their wedding ceremony is filled with romance
and laughter, even though it stormed during
the ceremony and the wedding reception.
The tent is torn and blown by the wind, and
so everyone is forced to take cover in the
house.
Tim goes back in time and switches his best
man when Rory, Harry, and Jay mess up their
speeches until finally, he chooses his father.
Months later, Mary gives birth to their daughter,
Posy.
Tim is mesmerized at the experience of raising
a child, both for its precious moments and
the difficulties.
They move into a new house, and soon, it's
Posy's first birthday.
All the guests arrive, including Harry and
Rory, but Kit-Kat is late to the party.
The doorbell rings, and Tim answers it, but
instead of Kit-Kat, it's her troublesome boyfriend,
Jimmy.
He and Kit-Kat argued earlier that day which
ended with Kit-Kat driving by herself.
Kit-Kat had been drinking earlier that day,
leading her to crash her car on the way to
Tim's house.
Hoping to save her, Tim goes back in time
and picks her up from her home instead.
But this doesn't solve the problem.
Kit-Kat maintains a drinking problem stemming
from her unhappy relationship with Jimmy.
Tim talks to his sister, hoping to reach out
to her.
When it doesn't work, he takes Kit-Kat back
in time during the New Year's Eve party where
she met Jimmy.
But instead of flirting with Jimmy, she releases
her pent-up anger on him and punches him despite
him not remembering her in this timeline.
The siblings go back to the present, and immediately,
Kit-Kat realizes her feelings for Jay.
This time, she dates Jay instead, and their
relationship turns out better than she had
with Jimmy.
Having saved his sister's life and happiness,
Tim heads back home but finds that he has
a son instead of his daughter, Posy.
The sudden realization makes his heart sinks.
Immediately, he goes into a cupboard and goes
to the past when his son was born to talk
to James.
James confirms that any change he makes before
his child is born is likely to result in a
different child being conceived.
If he wishes to keep Posy, he can never change
anything that happened before she was born.
Unable to accept losing the daughter he knew,
Tim goes back again in time to undo the changes
he made to Kit-Kat's life and allows her car
accident to happen.
With Kit-Kat in the hospital, Tim and Mary
stay by her side until she recovers.
Their support leads Kit-Kat to decide on changing
her life for the better.
Remembering the alternate timeline when she's
happy with Jay, Tim suggests for Kit-kat to
start seeing him.
Arriving home from the hospital, Tim relishes
in his daughter's presence.
Their happiness inspires him to have another
child.
Despite Mary's protests at first, they conceive
their son two years later.
One evening, Tim helps Mary prepare to meet
her company's best-selling author, but they
accidentally leave Posy downstairs, where
she destroys the manuscript from Mary's office.
Tim wants to use time travel to fix it, but
their night is interrupted by a call from
his mother, announcing that James has been
diagnosed with terminal cancer.
Tim, Mary, and Kit-Kat visit the beach house
where Tim talks to his father.
Their time travel cannot undo his cancer without
risking Tim and Kit-Kat's births.
In the end, time travel cannot fix everything
life throws at them.
James gives Tim what he deems is a far more
important lesson for their ability.
The first is to go through life as normally
as possible, with all the everyday tensions
and worries.
Secondly, after he lives the day once for
the first time, he should go back and relive
moments of his life while paying attention
to how sweet the world can be.
Tim follows his advice and finds happiness
in both the mundane and the special moments
in his life.
However, there are still days that he doesn't
wish to relive, such as the day his father
died.
Not ready to say goodbye, Tim travels back
in time to visit his father while he's still
in good health.
After James' death, Tim is comforted that
he can still visit his father back in time
whenever he misses him.
One day, however, Mary decides that she wants
a third child.
Tim hesitates, knowing that having a third
child will disable him from visiting his father
again.
With much thought, he lets go of the past
and decides to carry on with the future.
He then agrees to have another child.
Months later, Mary is heavily pregnant and
will be giving birth soon.
This is Tim's last chance to visit his father
in the past.
He goes back in time and plays table tennis
with his father for the last time.
Seeing the sadness in Tim's eyes, James realizes
that it is their last time together.
He accepts this and lets him know that he
agrees with his son's decision.
As a treat, they both travel back in time
to when Tim was a young boy.
Both in better health and with more energy,
James and Tim run and play by the beach for
the last time.
Tim says his final goodbyes to his father
and returns to the present time when his third
child is born.
Years pass, and Tim continues with life normally,
spending both the laughs and tears with his
family.
He has completed his family with Mary, while
Kit-Kat also gives birth to her child with
Jay.
One morning, he allows Mary to sleep in and
prepares breakfast for his kids, relishing
their presence.
Tim decides to never time travel again, living
each day as if it's the second time he's lived
it.
This time, he focuses on appreciating life,
from the big events to the smallest details.